# A sip of 'Bitter' CAFFE -- CAFFE + Python (Anaconda) on Win 10 (with CUDA and CUDNN)

The whole procedure is so tough that I was on the edge to abort this plan. So lucky I made it.

(However you master one platform, the other one, even the closest sibling, would drive you crazy. And I deeply felt the hatred of programmer towards Windows OS.)

Since this morning and part of the afternoon I mainly revised Probability Theory (And I had some new findings towards Statistics: Maximum Likelihood and Bayesian Theory!), I only had about 4 hrs working on the platform construction.

Here are the RIGHT flowchart of configure CAFFE:

Follow the [guide](https://github.com/BVLC/caffe/tree/windows) is a good start. And [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SeCE757egcE&feature=youtu.be) on Youtube is also helpful. Thanks to their considerate work.

1. Preparation: 

    * Visual Studio 2015 (Use 2017 would be a torture when you find all of the platform and framework only support anything but 2017)

    * CMake. Download the binary distribution. Make sure cmake.exe and python.exe are on my path.

    * Anaconda Python. The most tiring part. Since I installed Anaconda 4.2.0 with Python 3.6, I first tried add environment (like using the command line 'conda create -n ... python=3.5'), but failed. When trying to run 'cuild_win.md', the program would always detect Python 3.6 and cease my installation. Also, I tried activate python 3.5, modified the PATH file (point the anaconda to 3.5 envs), failed. AT LAST, I degraded 'python' package in dir 'root' and succeeded!

    * CUDA and CUDNN. CAUTION: CUDA v8.0 and CUDNN v6.0 is supported. The latest version is UNSUPPORTED!

2. Select an local repositary to store the project. (ACCELERATION NEEDS EDITING PAC OF SHARDOW SOCKS). Open your cmd window in this dir.

```
git clone https://github.com/BVLC/caffe.git
cd caffe
git checkout windows
```

3. Edit the build_win.cmd in TEXT EDITER!

follow the guide of the video and modify the parameters, including Ninja/CPU or GPU/Python Version/Matlab (if you what to configure Matcaffe)/Anaconda dir/CUDA dir. Go through them with great care.

Then run
```
scripts\build_win.cmd
```

Anything runs smoothly, and a large file will be downloaded. I manually download it on willyd's website ([libraries_v140_x64_py35_1.1.0.tar.bz2](https://github.com/willyd/caffe-builder/releases)). Then put the file into the very place it should be. (That dir would display on cmd window).

4. After 13 mins, I finished installation (compilation more precisely).
Then run
```
conda config --add channels conda-forge
conda config --add channels willyd
conda install --yes cmake ninja numpy scipy protobuf==3.1.0 six scikit-image pyyaml pydotplus graphviz
```
I installed all the package ahead of Process 2 because some steps requires Numpy. There is something wrong with protobuf 3.1.0 but I at least installed it anyway.

5. Copy all the files in caffe\python and paste in Anaconda\Lib\site_packages folder. Run python in cmd window.
```
import caffe
```
Nothing but >>> appears, so I finished installation. Congradulations!

# Tomorrow plan

Probability Thoery and CAFFE. Better run the demo of paper _Direct intrinsics: Learning albedo-shading decomposition by convolutional regression_ by Narihira _et al._.